#summary A brief discussion of the program that converts these wiki pages to (roughly) equivalent LaTeX source code.

= Manual Converter =
Key Words: Manual, LaTeX, wiki, documentation, converting.
Author: Joe Thomas

== Introduction ==
These wiki pages serve as a rough draft of the manual for our code. One of their chief advantages is that they can be updated rapidly, and are accessible to everyone on the project. Once a piece of documentation has "matured" we would like to incorporate it into our more polished LaTeX based manual. Our manual-converter code provides a convenient way to automate this process.

== Description ==
Many other programmers have solved the problem of converting between LaTeX source and some other text-formatting scheme. So, the main problem this package solves is: "How can I compose these existing solutions into a program that suits our needs?" We accomplish this with two converter programs, `wikify.py` and `html2latex`.

Here is the brief version for input wiki source `foo.wiki`:
  # The `wikify.py` script converts `foo.wiki` to `foo.html`.
  # Several `sed` commands removes from `foo.html` several special `html` tags that `html2latex` cannot parse.
  # The `html2latex` takes `foo.html` and turns it into `foo.tex`

The `wikify.py` python script is a modified version of another Google Code project for converting wikis to html. (There are a few projects like this on the web, one is:[http://chrisroos.co.uk/blog/2008-07-30-converting-google-code-wiki-content-to-html])

`html2latex` is a `C` program (likely constructed using `lex` and `yacc`). You can read more about these at: [http://www.iwriteiam.nl/html2tex.html]. The version in our manual converter is also slightly modified from the original.

`sed` is a useful Unix utility for editing files via regular expressions. (Wikipedia is a good place to begin reading about `sed`.)

Two bash scripts compose these utilities into one converter. `convert.sh` describes how to convert one file from `wiki` syntax to LaTeX. `wiki2latex` is a driver script that allows you to convert several `wiki` files to corresponding `latex` files.

== Usage ==
Using the manual converter is fairly simple. First, use `svn` to download a copy of our wikis:
{{{
svn checkout https://geocam.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/ geocam_wiki --username YOUR_USER_NAME
}}}
Within your wiki directory, you will see several files with the extension `.wiki`. Say you want to convert `foo.wiki`, `bar.wiki`, and `baz.wiki`. To do this, you can type:
{{{
wiki2latex *.wiki
}}}
which makes `.tex` files for each wiki in the folder, or
{{{
wiki2latex foo.wiki bar.wiki baz.wiki
}}}
which produces just `foo.tex`, `bar.tex`, and `baz.tex`.

Obviously, you can also add commands to these scripts to add functionality to the converter (say, for example, you would like the script to intelligently convert and replace just recently updated wikis).

== Known Issues ==
The converter does not correctly parse wiki-links into links between TeX files. For the time being, these will have to be updated manually.

 


Add your content here.


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages