#summary This page describes our current procedure for exporting our application from eclipse.

= Introduction =

For some months we have been trying to find a simple way to export our application from eclipse, such that the application

  # runs properly (all data and native libraries available)

  # can be reasonably installed and run by non-programmers.

This page describes our current procedure for exporting the application. It is definitely a work in progress, so problems should be noted and reported!

= Exporting the Application =

We wish to export versions of our application for each of the three major operating systems (Linux, Macintosh, and Windows) and different processors (32 and 64 bit). Probably the easiest way to use the instructions below is to do the export on the target OS and processor.

Steps:
# Make sure the application you want to export runs under eclipse! In particular, you need to make sure the build path is set up correctly because this tells eclipse what libraries to export. See [http://code.google.com/p/geocam/wiki/eclipse_setup] for more information about the build path.

# Next, within the "Project Explorer" select the Geocam project. Then, click File->Export. This will bring up a window offering to export various things, select "Java -> Runnable Jar" within the tree of options and press "Next".

# You should see a window entitled "Runnable JAR File Export". Stepping out of Eclipse for a moment, you should make a folder somewhere on disk to contain the application and its libraries/data. For my purposes, I'll call this folder "GEOCAM" and place it on the desktop.

# Within Geocam Project, you should locate the "Data" folder, which contains texture images, triangulations, etc. Copy this folder *exactly* into the folder you created. (If there isn't now a folder called "Data" within "GEOCAM", we won't be able to run the application from within the "GEOCAM" folder.)

# Returning to Eclipse, locate the "Launch Configuration" pulldown menu, and select the name of the class containing the "main" method you want to launch when the application is run.

# Within the "export destination" text box, select the path to the folder you created and provide a name for the final jar file. In my case, I used "/home/jthomas/Desktop/GEOCAM/app.jar"



Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages